# <div align="center">Document Extraction and JSON Conversion</div>
<div align="center">
  Created as an assignment for allitus.ai
</div>

<div align="center">

  Deployed solution is available at [link](https://documenttojson-deldrdw2ecls8mvgnuvpwf.streamlit.app/).
</div>

## Usage
1. Navigate to [url](https://documenttojson-deldrdw2ecls8mvgnuvpwf.streamlit.app/).
2. Upload a relevant PDF, and wait a few seconds.
3. Download the JSON file containing the extracted files.

## Developer Usage
```
git clone https://github.com/Eros483/Document_to_JSON.git
cd Document_to_JSON
```
- Dependency installation varies with environment isolation of choice, we recommend venv for easiest installation.
- Anaconda was utilised for dependency management during development of application.

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
The application has a `streamlit` GUI for easier usage, and a alternative terminal command for running the program.
- Option 1:
    - `streamlit run app.py`
- Option 2:
    - `python main.py <file_name>`.
    - Here, file_name refers to the document to be processed.
    - Kindly use appropriate syntax such as `"` while running the command.
    - Example Usage : `python main.py "[Fund Factsheet - May]360ONE-MF-May 2025.pdf.pdf"`

## Overview
### Initial Validation
- Checking file existence.
- Checking format and file extension.

### Extraction Process
- Pipeline handles each page individually.
- Heading detection is done through `regex` patterns of popularly utilised heading styles.
- Table extraction is done via both `pdfplumber` and `camelot`, then processed into dataframes and subsequently lists, while being cleaned for whitespaces, NULL values, etc.
- Chart extraction is done via extracting `images` and validating for popularly used dimensions such as generated by `matplotlib` etc.
    - Function is to be optimised.

### Output Generation
- JSON file is downloaded at the directory where the source file is being run or download directory is chosen by User.

## Notes for future development
- Lint code, and structure appropriately.
- Shift utilised functions into seperate directories for ease of maintainance.
- Introduce proper logging and error handling.
## Credits
I thank `allitus.ai` for providing me with the opportunity to work on this project.

